http://www.nws.noaa.gov/os/notification/scn17-111sbn_noaaport.htm


NSWSH
 

Service Change Notice 17-111

National Weather Service Headquarters Silver Spring, MD

710 AM EDT Mon Oct 23 2017

 

To:        Subscribers:

           -NOAA Weather Wire Service

           -Emergency Managers Weather Information Network

           -NOAAPORT

           Other NWS Partners and NWS Employees

 

From:      Ronla Henry

           NWS AWIPS Program Manager

 

Subject:   Change in Satellite Broadcast Network

           Effective on or about January 16, 2018

 

Effective on or about January 16, 2018, the SES-1 satellite will

no longer provide data to the NWS Satellite Broadcast Network

(SBN). Data will become available from the Galaxy 28 satellite

(G-28) by early December, before discontinuing the broadcast

from SES-1. In addition, the location of the Master Ground

Station (MGS) will move to Holmdel, NJ; the Backup Master Ground

Station (BMGS) will remain in Fairmont, WV. These changes are a

result of the transition to Signal Mountain as the new NWS SBN

communications support subcontractor under Raytheon, the Prime

Contractor for the Advanced Weather Interactive Processing

System (AWIPS). 

 

The downlink antennas at all receiving site ground stations

(SGS) will need to repoint to G-28 to accommodate this

transition. Users should not need new equipment to continue

receiving NOAAPORT data once the antenna has been adjusted.

Important specifications are below:

 

Galaxy 28 Satellite Location (new): 89 degrees West

FEC Type: DVB-S2

Polarity: Vertical/Right

Band: High, C-Band

 

The changeover from SES-1 to G-28 will occur in several phases

to ensure a smooth transition that maximizes the amount of time

with satellite backup coverage. The date of the initial

broadcast from G-28 is still being finalized. Additional

information and specific dates will be provided in the coming

weeks in the form of subsequent Service Change Notices.

 

If NOAAPORT users experience problems with service during the

satellite transition period, please contact James Calkins and

Kevin Conaty at NWS Headquarters.  

 

Kevin Conaty

     NOAA/NWS Office of Central Processing

     Silver Spring, MD 20910

     Email: Kevin.Conaty@noaa.gov

 

 

James Calkins

     NOAA/NWS Office of Central Processing

     Silver Spring, MD 20910

     Email: James.Calkins@noaa.gov

 

NWS AWIPS sites experiencing service problems should contact the

Network Control Facility.

 

AWIPS Network Control Facility (NCF) Help Desk

     NOAA/NWS Office of Central Processing

     Silver Spring, MD 20910

     Email: nws.ncf.supervisors@noaa.gov

 

NWS National Service Change Notices are online at:

 

  http://www.weather.gov/os/notif.htm

 

NNNN
