ldm is a general purpose data capture and distribution system,
independent of how or where the data comes from. 
For the noaaport application, you must couple it to a tool
that gets the data from the receiver and sends it the ldm
system for processing, following the ldm protocol.
That combination gives you a complete noaaport receiver software.
It is what I call gempak-centric, that is to say,
for obvious reasons, the assumption is that you will be looking
at the data using the gempak tools, and therefore the
output of the whole thing is governed by the gempak tools' formats.
For example, satellite images are not stored directly as png, gif or jpg
files that be viewed with ordinary programs including a web browser.
That requires further processing and/or configuration.

I wanted something that was not focused on gempak, that could
output the files in ready-to-read formats that can be viewed and
distributed by standard tools, incorporating facilities
for distribution by various means (email, web).  Trying to adapt
the ldm-noaaport system to do something it was not designed for
semed like the wrong path to follow. For example, one has to learn
a new and rather specific language-syntax to modify the ldm
configuration file pqact.conf. I wanted a system where the
configuration (actually the run-control scripts) was based on a full,
general purpose language like perl, tcl and others.

So, nbsp is designed, from the ground up, with all these things in mind.
In general, files are stored in their original form
as they were sent. Text files (bulletins, etc) can be viewed
with any text editor, satellite images with png/jpg/gif viewers,
they can be sent through the network `a la emwin, by email, by
news software, etc. No further tools are needed to produce them. 
If anyone is content with just getting the text fles and satellite
images and putting them up in a web site, it can be done without
installing any other external programs. Output can also be
in a gempak format mimicking what ldm would do, so nothing is lost
since all can be done at the same time.

ldm is still slightly faster, because it skips a lot of work that it leaves
to others. For example, the satellite images are saved as they are
received, raw data in compressed form, and it leaves the decompression and
decoding to the gempak tools (e.g., nmap2). nbsp on the other hand
does the decompression and decoding itself, storing the file as a
png/jpg file. nbsp is quite fast, and the speed difference
is not much anyway, but it is the price for
being able to see the output files from any computer anywhere,
with or without gempak, not just the one where gempak is installed. 

Jose





